# Installing

Installing python is relatively easy for anyone familiar with installing software on their computer. This will be a short and sweet list of things to do to get up and running.

## Step 1

This will vary depending on your operating system so please go to your relevant section

### Windows

For windows you can head straight to the python website's download page [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/). Download the latest version, this will be an executable installer which you can then run. In the installer window which pops up you will want to make sure the "Add python.exe to PATH" option is enabled. This will make things easier post install. Everything else can be left default and you can run the install. Windows will ask if you want to let this program install, and select yes.

Finally you should be presented with a "Setup was successful" message which means you did it!

### Linux/Unix

Depending on your OS you may be able to install with the package manager available to you. Some common examples are:

Debian/Ubuntu:

`sudo apt install python3`

Arch Linux:

`sudo pacman -S python`

### Mac OS

Python can be installed using homebrew:

`brew install python`

## Step 2

> Checking that the install was successful

It's always good to check that the install was succesful before going deeper down the rabbit hole of programming.

### Windows

You will want to open the start menu by pressing the windows key and then start typing for `idle`. You should find a program called "Idle (Python 3.XX 64-bit)" as an option. Start that program up and you should see a window pop up which is called `IDLE Shell`. At the top of the editor you will see some information about the python version you have installed and your cursor should be next to some greater than symbols like this: `>>>`

This is what is known as a REPL, Read-Evaluate-Print-Loop and what it does is read a line or lines of python that you type in, evaluate it, print back to the same window if required and then loop, i.e. wait for the next line of input. Congrats it looks like the install worked correctly! 

### Unix/Linux/Mac

It is pretty simple to check if the install worked correctly for unix like systems. After the install you may have to close down your terminal and then re-open it to ensure the paths have been updated. Then by simply running `python`, or `python3` depending on what you installed, you will be presented with a REPL interface `>>>` just like the IDLE program windows users will have installed. Congrats the install has worked correctly.

## Step 3

Installing VSCode

This step is technically optional if you are comfortable enough to install and use a different code editor then go ahead. But for the rest of this guide I will be assuming that VSCode has been installed as per the following:

### Download and Install VSCode

Head to the [download page](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download) and download the appropriate version for your Operating System.

Double click the downloaded installer and allow the install. 

Finally boot up VSCode. On windows you can do this by searching for "VSCode" in the start search. On Unix/Linux/Mac you can boot up VSCode by running the `code` command from a terminal or searching for "Code" in your appropriate app launcher.

## Step 4

You can play around with themese for VSCode to your hearts content. But as for required extensions I would have to say that the `python` extension is a must, so please go over to the extensions tab on the left hand side, search for python and install it. You can verify it's the right one because it will have "Microsoft" as the author. This extension will make the code look pretty and also allow us to run the code directly in VSCode which makes things very easy for us!

## Step 5

Good work getting this far, you should go make a tea or coffee and get ready for the next section: Writing your first program!!!