# Variables

## What are they?

Variables are like memory for your program. They store values in places so that you can use them later.

## How do we use them in Python?

Variables are defined like so: 

```python
variable_name = 1
```

In the example above you can see we have a variable named `variable_name` and it's value that we have stored in it is `1`. In python the equals sign `=` is what is known as the assignment operator, meaning it assigns what comes after it to what goes before it. This will make more sense as we go on.

## Using variables

Let's put our variables to the test, if you open up the REPL we used in Chapter 1 we can play around with variables interactively.

For windows find and run `IDLE` and for other users open up a terminal and run `python`

You should now have your `>>>` prompt showing.

Let's create a couple of variables, type in `a = 2` and hit enter. Now type `b = 3` and hit enter. You've just created two variables, one called "a" which holds the value `2` and the other named "b" with the value `3`. You can type the name of a variable in the program and then hit enter to see what value it holds. Try it now, type `b` and enter and you should see `3` pop up on the next line.

## Basic operators

We've now seen the assignment operator in action, but there are more operators available to use! There are many operators but the basic ones are `+ - / * =`, we might go over some more advanced ones in the later chapters. 

`+` adds things together.

`-` subtracts things.

`/` divides things.

`*` multiplies things.

`=` assigns things.

I encourage anyone following along to have a play around in the python REPL now with assigning numbers to variables and then using some basic operators on them. i.e.

```python
a = 1
b = 2
a + b
```

## Advanced assignment

We know the basics of assigning variables static values now but that's not the only way to set variables. I told you earlier that anything on the right hand side of the assignment operator will be assigned to the left hand side. This means we can also do things like:

```python
a = 1
b = 2
c = b
d = a + b + c
```

Have a go in the REPL now to see the magic at work.